Q: Which cricketer hit the fastest century of the 1985 season?
A: Ian Botham

Article: Cricket is not boring - promise!

Speed is something of a dichotomy in test cricket. Critics point out that the game includes lunch and tea breaks, lasts five days and can still end in a draw. Fans point out that the game includes lunch and tea breaks, lasts five days and can still end in a draw. You either get it or you don't. I hated it for years, its sole place in my life being the thing that tied up the TV every weekend while my Dad watched from morning 'til night.
Then, in 2003 I was in Australia and sick. Stuck in the bedroom of our shared house, I was held hostage to the game as my ex-fiancé watched an Australia/India test. Perhaps it's sporting Stockholm Syndrome, but I've loved it ever since. And as I couldn't support Australia, I have loved Rahul Dravid since too.
I don't pretend to know a huge amount about it. This is, in part, because its bloody complicated. There are ten methods of getting out, alone. There is an intricate (and perhaps flawed) formula for calculating run targets if rain has stopped play. And there are stats.
Stats, stats and more stats
Cricket fans love stats. They can be analysed endlessly, deployed to end arguments or just held up as a mark of a cricketer's greatness.
For example, the TP question above doesn't specify what form of cricket they're talking about. Within minutes I could find out whether Botham scored a century in the 1985 test season (he didn't), what first-class match he scored this century in, and full details of the fastest centuries in all forms of the game.
The above century was reached in 49 minutes, as part of a total score of 138, which took Botham just 67 minutes and 65 balls to achieve. It's pretty quick, although difficult to compare to the international forms where bowling, as you'd expect, is tougher and more consistent (if we ignore England's recent performance in Australia) and there is potentially more pressure.
However, he hit a four off 13 of those deliveries faced, and a six off 12 of them. That means that for all but 14 of those 'runs', Botham didn't have to run. It also means that there were about 30 deliveries that he scored nothing from. Almost half. Remember, this is the fastest century of the English cricket season in 1985 - and it's only been beaten twice in test cricket - and around 60% of the balls bowled were met with a man hitting, or not hitting, the ball and then staying pretty much still.
This was also just one batman's innings in a two-day match.  
However, what was going on in the smaller moments of that innings was anything but slow. The overall pace of the game may be genteel, but what the batsman is facing every minute or so they are on strike against a fast bowler, is terrifyingly fast.
 
Andy Bull wrote a brilliant explanation of this in The Guardian.
[blockquote]At 85mph, a ball takes 0.52sec to travel 22 yards. That's less time than it takes Usain Bolt to complete his first stride, and a little more than it takes you to blink. It's how long a batsman has to spot the length and line of the delivery, pick a shot to play, and then pull it off. To do it right, he needs to judge the position of the ball to within around three centimetres, and time the arrival of the bat to within three milliseconds. Any further, any sooner, any slower, and the ball misses the sweet spot. Put like that, hitting a cricket ball begins to seem like a preternatural act, as impossible as pinching a fly from the air with a pair of chopsticks.[/blockquote]
He goes on to explain the rough equation of how that 0.52sec time is broken down:
100ms = seeing the ball
100ms = implementing decision on how to play and hitting the thing, although any deviation in the final 200ms of the ball's flight means the batsman has no chance to change his mind
So that effectively leaves 150ms choosing how to play the ball. In - literally - the blink of an eye a cricketer will consider his own form, the bowler's style and pace, the angle of release, the first few feet of flight and the match conditions before choosing how to hit that ball.
It may seem a quiet, uneventful game, but when you start to zoom in on what is actually happening each time a ball is bowled, it's like those microscopic images that reveal that each of our eyelashes contains tons of life.
These computations were for a ball at 85mph, but take one at 90mph+ and you lose an extra 50ms. It's why Mitchell Johnson has been unplayable recently. Batsmen are also - understandably - a little bit nervous about being hit. It must take a huge amount of determination or focus to stop your natural instinct to avoid a small, wooden, leather-wrapped ball pummelling into your squishy bits.
It would be great if you could watch a non-cricketer face those balls to see just how how easy even an out-of-form professional batsman makes this look. Just imagine if that guinea pig is also a colossal fuckface who happened to get a dinged rib doing it. Thank you heavens, you are truly smiling on us:


Q: Which owl is sometimes referred to as a screech owl?
A: The barn owl

Article: The Wonderful World of Wols

This question is a surprisingly common example of the game getting things completely wrong. Owls are split into two groups: barn owls and true owls, and screech owls are in the latter category. In fairness, 'sometimes referred to' could imply 'by people who are wrong' so there is some wriggle room here. Regardless of the factual inaccuracy, owls are incredible creatures, so let's chat about them a bit.
The first time I met an owl
 
I don't know which one of us looks more unsure in this photo. In fairness, my concern could be the bowl haircut. Or the brown and yellow uniform (it was a Catholic school and I think they were making us atone for the sins of humanity) but I think it's more likely the raptor on my shoulder. Oh sure, you might say it's 'just an owl', but you haven't just watched that beak tearing through raw flesh like it was a peach. Nor do you have to worry about it shitting on your shoulder.
I have an awful memory for my childhood. I can only assume this is because I am an alien, put on the earth to destroy you all once my chip is activated. But one memory my masters have planted particularly vividly is this owl coming to our school and flying over us kids without making a drop of noise. I should point out it had a handler - it wasn't just the Littlest Hobo of the owl world. On one of its crossings I thought I heard a whisper of air disturbance, but my guess is that was imagined because...
Owls are incredibly efficient predators
Most prey animals have developed pretty good hearing - all the better to avoid being eaten with. In turn, owls have evolved to be silent, but deadly. Yes. Like farts. Perhaps that's not the best description. Let's say they are 'whispering death' instead, which gives me a chance to shoehorn in a picture of one of my crushes:
 
 This owl species was discovered in the 1970s in the Caribbean but travelled worldwide, spreading terror and fear.
The leading edges of their primary feathers have stiff fringes that reduce noise while the trailing edge of their primaries have soft fringes that helps to reduce turbulence. Downy feathers cover the surfaces of the wing to further reduce sound.


Q: What nut-producing tree is mentioned in the first line of Longfellow's poem The Village Blacksmith?
A: A chestnut tree

Article
Arguing with Mr Longfellow
 
[accordion]
[accordion_pane accordion_title=”Answer″] [/accordion_pane]
The English language is a wonderful thing. Some moan about its imprecision or lack of strict rules, but that's what gives it such room for expression. And it seems nowhere is the imagination more stirred than by euphemisms for masturbation. It's easy to find sites listing 500 phrases and no two lists are the same. Aren't we just marvellous creatures? I now can't recall which particular term I put into Google to find out that 'Arguing with Mr Longfellow' is one of these terms, but I think we can all agree that it's more interesting than a long discussion on poetry. We can probably also see why I did not last long studying English at Cambridge. 
The inventiveness of masturbation terms  does vary greatly. Many work on the old bastions of rhyme or alliteration. Some are wonderfully visual. But even with an Englishwoman's practised eye for innuendo, some were utterly baffling to me. If a chap were to look at me mischievously and state they were going to go and 'put their foot down' or 'null the void' I would be pushed to think they were off for a quick wank - even if they put a 'knowwhaddimean' + raised eyebrow at the end of their sentence.
Luckily, comparatively few people have ever announced to me their intention to masturbate, so this isn't a likely scenario. But while it seems people will accept almost any phrase as a euphemism as long as it's said in the right tone, there are certain themes that run through these lists, which I thought were kind of interesting. So for all huddled masses who have been waiting desperately for a categorised list of wank metaphors, this post is for you.
Putting the 'abuse' in self-abuse
By far the largest group, this put the furious into 'wanking furiously'. Bashing, bopping, crushing, flogging, beating, pumping, punching, slamming & spanking were very much the order of the day. In part it's a large group just because the bologna may be bopped or beaten, the bishop bashed or flogged, so it's a very flexible world.
Examples: bash the bishop, mangle the midget, pound off, punch the clown (eh?), spank Elvis (double eh?) and 88 more such delights
Putting the 'self' in self-abuse
This was a much smaller category, and generally less dynamic. It expands somewhat if you include the subset of 'hand as woman' i.e. 'going on a date with Palmela Handerson' or 'visiting Mrs Palm and her five daughters'.
Some of the more direct soloist efforts were downright depressing, however ironic they wanted to be: 'sacrificing sperm to the god of lonely nights' for example, or 'giving yourself a low five'. I think 'talking quietly to yourself' has to be the most soul-sapping of the lot though.

“fuck the wank flannel”
Animal-based
These two categories were much on a par numerically. Some of the best known sit under this category: burp the worm, choke the chicken, flog the lizard, choke the chicken, wax the dolphin. You get the idea.
Some more ambitious souls have gone for more than alliteration and a vague resemblance to the man member though. They've got poetic, with stroke the one-eyed burping gecko/satin-headed serpent.
Motion-based
Let's be honest here: the act of masturbation is visually strange. This category tries to find suitable verb + object combos to describe that action including cranking the love pump, tickling the pickle, and fiddling the flesh flute. Other verbs used were pulling, rubbing, tossing, squeezing, twanging and tweaking. Just look at that list of verbs and try to tell me English is not a miraculous language.
The more bizarre in this group included 'squeezing the happy lumberjack' (do men wear checked willy-warmers these days?) and 'tossing the turkey'.
Food-based
Again, very popular, largely due to pork references including basting the ham, pulling the bologna pony, holding the sausage hostage and cuddling the kielbasa. There were also quite a few appearances phallic fruit & veg, with bananas, corn, carrots and gherkins being the most common.
I definitely don't get 'manipulate the mango' although I guess this could, possible be a rare term for female masturbation? Maybe?
High-falutin'
Debugging the hard drive
Genital stimulation via phallengetic motion
Going Hand Solo on Darth Vader's head
Much agoo about nothing
 
Eh?
Feel free to explain any of these to me. Perhaps I'm being stupid. It happens a lot. 
●	Barking up the wrong tree
●	Nerk your throbber
●	Combing the hair on your bald pig Sally (beautifully evocative whatever it actually means)
●	Giving the half-blind dog a run for his money
●	Looking for clues with Fred & Daphne
●	Hotfooting it to the nearest exit
●	Do the janitor thing
●	Stretching the truth
●	Backstroke roulette
Anyway, that was a walk through the weird and wonderful world of wanking words. I hope you enjoyed it.



     
 
The Queen's accession to the throne was in 1952. At the time she was the constitutional monarch of 19 states, so you can understand it taking her a wee while to get round to it, but 33 years seems a little off. Crazy when you consider that the place looks like this:
 
 
But then, the Queen takes her yearly summer holiday in Scotland, so I'm guessing she's not a sun-chaser. She does look pretty good for an 87-year old. I'd guess. I don't know. I don't think I've ever seen anyone that old naked.
 
Source
Thanks, internet. Thanks.
Belize is, I'm reliably told, unique among the benefit bludger's kingdoms, in that she is officially the Queen of Belize rather than the Queen of the United Kingdom in her official business there. So the delayed visit must have been another little kick to the gut - at least to those who could give the tiniest rat's arse about the monarchy. If I lived there I'd imagine I'd be too busy gorging myself on shellfish and snorkelling to worry about some bepearled lady 5000 miles away. Especially as she doesn't really have any power. Even her representative, the Governor General, is largely a nominal post. But he cuts a very impressive figure, nonetheless.  Sir Colville Norbert Young, GCMG, MBE is a teacher, politician, musician and poet who has very quietly gone about revolutionising Belize's education system. Considering the small population and his tireless work, it is reckoned there are few people he has not directly affected in the country.
He's also interested in linguistics, and so pulled together a collection of Belizean creole sayings. They are alternately pithy, wise, a touch baffling and possibly innuendo, but as Young mentions in his preface, a nation's sayings really give you an indication of their outlook, environment and history. This makes it surprising that more British proverbs are not based entirely around the weather - and more particularly rain.
The full book can be found here, but these are some of my favourites:

Undeniably evocative, if a touch odd:
Tiger thin but e caca tarry  (Lit: The tiger is thin but its shit is sticky)
NB: To say of a man ‘e caca tarry’ generally indicates unexpected talent, especially qualities such as bravery and cunning

A sexier (?) version of don't look a gift horse in the mouth
Da no one time monkey wa wife  (Lit: It’s not only once that the monkey needs sexual intercourse)
Meaning: Don’t be ungrateful for favours received; you’ll probably want more in the future

This could be the Guardian's tagline:
To sweat other people’s fever
Meaning: To be overly concerned about injustices to others, especially strangers

And to be balanced, this is basically the unspoken emotion behind 'we're all in this together'
Full-belly tell empty-belly “Kip heart”
Meaning: Those who are well-fed (i.e. well off) can afford to be cheerful and optimistic

And some to both comfort and focus me whenever I get criticism:
Pipple never stone empty mango tree
Meaning: To be criticised implies the possession of talent
and
When stone thrown eena hag-pen, de hag weh squeal de hag weh get lick  (Lit: When a stone is thrown into a hog-pen, the hog that squeals is the hog that gets hit)
Meaning: When a general criticism is made, the person who resents it is often guilty of the fault
 
Two I should try to keep in mind before every night out (but I never will):
Fun bring bun [burn]
and
Weh sweet eena dog mout sour eena e bahin(d) (Lit: What’s sweet in the dog’s mouth is sour in his behind)
 
One that is superb, especially if it was said in earshot of a helicopter parent:
Save your eye-water fo wen you ma dead (Lit: save your crying for when your mum dies) [burn]
Mostly quoted when children (yes, children) are crying over nothing
 
And one that is incredibly graphic:
To gi 'way your batty an' shit through you ribs (Lit: To give away your bottom and shit through your ribs) 
To be so generous as to be left without what one needs

That was a brief tour around the joys of Belizean Creole and a nation’s proverbs. Share your favourites with us at xxx



 
[accordion]
[accordion_pane accordion_title=”Answer″] [/accordion_pane]
 
Luxembourg's entire population is slightly more than that of Bristol. So if you've never met someone from Luxembourg, it's as surprising as if you've never met someone from Bristol. Of course, if you live in either of these places and you still haven't met someone from there, you should probably try being a touch more sociable, if only to stop your face being eaten off by cats when you die. "What if I don't have cats?" you might ask, but the answer is that you don't have to actually own them. They can smell a lonely death from 10 furlongs and will break through doors to eat faces off. They're evil. Pure evil.
Anyway, Luxembourg. It's tiny. There are only 19 states in the world smaller. Here's how big it is compared to London:
 
Even if you wanted to avoid Stevenage and Kent (and who wouldn't) the whole thing could be squished into about half of London.
Luxembourg is also very wealthy. Due to a tiny population, relatively small country, and the 150+ banks and various 'tax haven' company laws, Luxembourg has the highest GDP in the world and is second only to Qatar when you take into account PPP. If you're considering moving there from the UK, this website gives you a handy ready-reckoner as to how you will be better or worse off:
 
I assume when they say you would 'consumer 4.3 times more oil' they mean the fuel rather than in salad dressings. Which is strange considering how small and temperate a country this is. Perhaps they spend that extra 5.74% of free time racing their Bugatti Veyrons around oil drums filled with burning money.
You also wouldn't want to be sick there, although I'd imagine the UK would come low compared to most countries on the cost of healthcare. Mostly, you'd have to be unconcerned about giving birth to a tenth more of a child. I suppose it depends which bit. A leg could be useful. Half a head, more disturbing. But other than that, it seems like a perfectly pleasant place to live.
A lot of people other than Luxembourgers think so too: 32% of its population is immigrant although that, apparently, is related to the aforementioned finance industry and the need for bright young things to populate all those banks. So on paper, this is just about the perfect society: it's clean, safe, rich, healthy and the whole of its capital is a UNESCO World Heritage site. So why isn't everyone rushing to live there? I live 300 miles from Luxe and I have only met one person who has stepped foot in the place - or at least only one who has found it interesting enough to mention.
It's strange we spend so long trying to attain the perfect society, because those places that are supposed to have attained it are always found incredibly dull. Switzerland, Sweden, Canada, Luxembourg - all frequent visitors to 'most dull places' list and all pretty high on the 'highest quality of life' lists too.
Luxembourg is so uninspiring that this man, while trying to refute how boring the place is, states that the best thing about it is that you can go to places other than Luxembourg easily. Wonderful. That's like going out with a man because you fancy all of his friends. Sure, he's a bit boring, and you repeatedly find yourself justifying why you're with him, but you're in regular proximity to eye candy because of him, and surely that's what everyone wants? Give me the grubby, angry but borderline-disordered London any day.



The $64,000 Question was a 1950s American gameshow which, it appears, dished out 29 Cadillacs and more than $2 million.  The $64,000 question also had a UK version, despite the prize never actually being $64,000.
The show was a massive hit in the US. I know the phrase 'that's the $64000 question' was still popular with my parents' generation although it's probably been eclipsed now by the even more banal 'can I phone a friend' if someone is posed a tricky question. But the longevity it had in public consciousness is pretty impressive for for a show that only lasted three years. It had massive success which quickly died down, but it was finally killed off by a huge quiz show scandal across this and other gameshows, in which producers had given contestants the questions in advance or swapped them out rapidly live so that preferred contestants could win.
It's weird: at first I was mildly shocked that such wholesale corruption went on in such an innocent era. Then I remembered that there is not one single era in history which has been 'innocent' and it seems to be a constant project of media to tell us that the times in which we live are the very worst. It's all utter nonsense.
Talking of overreacting to change, there was a British version of the programme too. While still called The $64,000 Question, the prize was initially 64,000 sixpences, or £1600 and later it doubled to 64,000 shillings - £3200. These prices were pretty extortionate - around £96,000 in today's money. But the keen-eyed among you will have noticed the non-decimal currency. In Britain we clung onto that until 1971 - becoming the last major economy to change to decimalisation.
We had already metricated (moved from pounds and ounces to kilograms and grams) in 1965. Obviously it's difficult to resist a currency change, because whatever ideals you might cling onto, that florin in your pocket just isn't going to be accepted by Marks and Sparks or Ann Summers, so you roll with it.
Metrication was a different matter. People were up in arms. People are still up in arms. Some people are just in ARM which is a way of being up in arms both singular and plural. This is a group called Active Resistance to Metrication. It was set up in 2001. That's right. 36 years after metrication. Almost four decades. I can't work out why people say the British are a stubborn, narrow-minded people.
I wouldn't mention this organisation normally - they started with just five people and have now grown to 'dozens' but for the code names they hilariously assume. They are all references to old weights and measures. Not only do they use measures that have since been superseded, trampling heavily all over their own frigging point, but they sound like a Norfolk pornstar collective:
[blockquote] Members of A.R.M. use code names. Among our members, who include the editor of one of the world’s best-selling magazines, we have ‘Daisy Chain’, ‘Furlong’ ‘Foot Rule; ‘Wun Tun’, ‘Rod Pole’, ‘Yardstick’, ‘Hundredweight’, and many more. Code names are used on A.R.M.’s well-known direct action raids, about which you will learn more on our website.[/blockquote]
The main work of this group is to stop any signage being posted that illegally uses metric distances (Britain adopted the metric for weights but retains imperial for distances). My kneejerk reaction to this is some hearty scoffing, followed by the suggestion that they should really get a hobby. But then, my kneejerk reactions are often twattish, and so I rethought: realistically, these people are exactly the kind of political grassroots movement that is needed - and has been needed for many years. They care. They work hard to make changes that they feel are necessary in the society they want to live in. I may be reasonably well-informed politically - and I certainly get on my soapbox and click online petitions - but nothing I do is as politically active as simply writing a letter to a council to ensure they do not allow the creep of metric distances into footpath signage.
It's very easy for people to mock anyone who cares. It's the major reason that the Occupy movement was relatively unsuccessful while the detached, oh-so-fucking-ironic Hipster trend continues. Because if you care, you can be mocked, whereas if you only ever give a shit about anything ironically you can always distance your self from anything uncool.
But if people had taken this strident an attitude to food additives, or supported strikes that would have halted the erosion of labour rules, or just plain stood up and told big business to fuck off, then a lot of the horrible things we see around us wouldn't have happened.
Not that I care or anything. Yeah? Now let's all laugh at the stupid people. #smuggery #thisisn'ttwitter #hashtag #meta #ifuckinglovemybeard


Harvest mice are the smallest rodent and also the only old-world mammal to have a prehensile tale. If there is one thing I think would be useful for someone as clumsy as I am, it would be a prehensile tail.
(Why did some species lose the prehensile tail?)
Anyway, listen out here for the clang as I drop a name so clumsily that I would need aforementioned tail to catch it.
When I met David Attenborough (at a book signing, it's not as if we're mates) I had been standing in line for about 45 mins and so had started reading the book I was going to get signed. There's a top tip by the way. If you want to read a book for free, just go to a big book signing and stand in the queue for a while. Then just saunter away, book read. Who needs professionals for budgeting advice when you've got me?
Anyway, the first chapter was about sloths. Mr Attenborough had written that the most common question he is asked is what sort of animal he would most like to be, and stated that in polite company he always said 'sloth'. I asked him what he would be if the company wasn't so polite, and he said 'young lady, I couldn't possibly tell you'.
I sort of made some awkward whining noise in an attempt to persuade him (I was starstruck, OK?) and as he signed the book, he looked up at me and winked. "Look it up" and passed me the book, now inscribed with the words "To Ellie, A jird, David Attenborough"
I looked it up and after some searching came upon this little fact:
[blockquote]"Remarkably, Shaw’s jird is able to mate a staggering 224 times in only two hours "[/blockquote]
Now I couldn't possibly say that this was what Mr Attenborough was referring to. But if he was, good on him.


Tea has, for many years now, been a vital part of British culture: whether just as a beverage we drink mountains of, or as a kind of shorthand for gentility. Perhaps more recently it's also become a point of differentiation from those Americans with their brash, loud coffee nonsense. Tea brings none of this hissing, foaming nonsense. It brings gently warmed teapots and the soft clink of china.
While coffee consumption has been on the increase, we still drink more than twice as much tea. Only Ireland drinks more than that, which surprises me not at all given how much my mother and aunts can crack through - and that's with all that important wine-drinking to be getting on with too. 
Despite its 'quintessentially British' reputation, tea is of course Chinese. It had been drunk in China for centuries before various adventurers (read: budding colonialists) brought it back to Europe. Even then it took quite some time before the British would take on these suspiciously 'continental' drinking habits. (As an aside: I love the fact that we are so isolationist that we call people on the same continent as us 'continentals'. It's the most ridiculous attempt at distancing I know, and yet I do it all the time too.)
Anyway, tea was actually introduced to us not by some stout, stiff upper-lipped explorer, but by Catherine of Braganza, the wife of Charles II and a Portuguese princess. That's right - it was introduced to us by the Portuguese.
And as much as the 2000s Starbucks revolution was sold as to 'introducing' coffee to Britain, we had coffee houses long before tea. The reference to tea that is dated in Britain was in a newspaper advert and announced that:
" 'China Drink, called by the Chinese, Tcha, by other Nations Tay alias Tee' was on sale at a coffee house in Sweeting's Rents in the City"
suggesting that coffee was established while tea was still a relatively alien concept.
As the drink's popularity grew, government worked this out and, well, they did what makes sense to most governments: they taxed the shit out of it. 25% tax in fact, a sum so high it almost stopped sales altogether, until it was dropped to 5%. 
To sate the demand for tea from the working classes - who couldn't afford the high prices created by demand and this tax - a large smuggling industry built up. Where quantity was impressive - 7m lbs of the stuff per annum, compared to the 5m lbs legal limits - quality was not so great. Various leaves were mixed in, with colour being provided by anything from copper carbonate (poisonous) to sheep's dung (mostly just gross) to earn the money.
Because the Daily Mail has apparently been with us in spirit for many years before it officially opened, there was a lot of debate over whether tea was good for your health or whether it would cause 'weakness and melancholy'. 
And there was about as much scientific rigour in their approach as there is in the Mail's. This 'concern' was mostly held by the upper classes who were concerned it was slowing their labour down. The debate rumbled on and on until tea began to be served in inns and taverns, at which point the wealthy temperance movement worked out that it could be their ally. Because whatever effects tea has, the massive gin consumption was palpably poor for profit margins.


Obviously being British, I prefer tea done right: in a bag, strong as Jack Reacher, milkier than a dairy farmer’s dungarees and sweet enough to blast even a port hangover into oblivion.
But apparently, I’m doing it wrong.
[blockquote]A proper tea does not mean you have to run out and buy lots of expensive things. If you are short a few items, ask a close friend or relative to borrow the things you need to complete your table.  A nice tablecloth without stains or holes is essential along with cloth or linen napkins. Of course you will need cups and saucers , plates, tea spoons, sugar bowl, sugar tongs (to serve the sugar cubes), tea strainer (if the tea leaves were put directly in the pot and not in a tea ball), and lemon dish.[/blockquote]
I would only need to go and buy the cups and saucers, sugar bowl, sugar tongs, tea strainer, the tablecloth without stains or holes and a lemon dish. And some tea that was not in a bag. I'm not even sure if a lemon dish is a proper thing or whether any old dish can substitute. But at least – phew! – I wouldn't have to buy bone china.
I'm big on manners. I'm the kind of auntie that won't relinquish a toy or treat until the child has said please, and I will then make damn sure they say thank you afterwards. There is no more awkward moment for me than being in a restaurant with someone who is rude to waitstaff. I would prefer that they drop their trousers and wave their genitals merrily around the restaurant than order food by barking instructions. I truly believe that politeness is the first virtue: it helps put us and society in the right frame of mind and it just makes a difficult day that little bit easier.
Etiquette, however, is a different kettle of fish. If, of course, it is proper to put ones fish in a kettle. What if kettles are reserved for commoners? What if the only right way to cook fish is in the disembowelled stomach cavity of a foot servant killed at dawn with a unicycle bell?
It’s no more daft than eating soup off the back of a spoon or 
This is the issue with etiquette: it doesn’t really make any sense. It exists entirely to determine class.
"A man's manners are a mirror in which he shows his portrait." as von Goethe says. Whether you lift your little finger to drink a cup of tea is nothing to do with the inner morals of your life and all it tells people is which social sphere you belong to.
I spent some time in Cambridge and there were many such laws of etiquette, all of which were protected carefully, and all of which were designed to provide an inner circle - the people who do know, as opposed to the people that don't.